Before starting the SQL. We should know about the basics of data and DBMS. 

Data : Data is the raw fact which describes the attributes or properties of an object.

Attributes : Attribute is a property of an Entity or Object.

Entity : Anything that physically exists is called an Entity or Object.

For Example : Student name is Ganesh. 
    In this,
     Student is the entity.
     Name is the property of the student(Entity).
     And "Ganesh" is the data(that describes the property of the entity).


DataBase : A DataBase is a place where the data is stored in an organized and systematic manner/way.
The basic operations that can be performed on DataBase are 
        C - Create/Insert
        R - Read/Retrieve 
        U - Update/Modify
        D - Delete/Drop
It is also known as "CRUD" operations.

DataBase Management System(DBMS) :
    --> DBMS is a software which maintains and manage the DataBase.
    --> It provides two important features.
            - Security(Protection)
            - Authorization(Verification)
    --> To communicate with DBMS. We usse a language called "Query Language".

There are 4 types of DBMS : 
- Network DBMS.
- Object Oriented DBMS.
- hierarchial DBMS.
-Relational DBMS(RDBMS)

Relational DBMS(RDBMS) :
    Relational DBMS is a type of DBMS software that stores data in the form of Tables or Relations(Rows & Columns).
    The RDBMS follows EF Codd rules. 
    In RDBMS, we can store meta data.
    The language that is used to communicate with RDBMS is called "Structured Query Language".

E.F. Codd Rules :
1. The Data that is stored in a cell must be a single value Data.
2. We can store data in multiple tables and we can establish connection between any two tables.
3. We can assign Datatypes and Constraints to validate the Data.
4. Datatypes are mandatory while constraints are optional.

Data Types :
There are % data types in SQL :
1. CHAR : It is used to store characters such as Uppercase,Lowercase, special Characters and  0-9 digits. 
        In this type we can store maximum of 2000 characters.
        In CHAR Datatype the unused  memory cannot be returned to the memory location that leads to the wastage of memory.

2. VARCHAR : The VARCHAR is same as CHAR but the unused memory gets separated and will be reused. Hence there is no wastage of memory.
             VARCHAR2 is the Updated version of VARCHAR where it can store upto a maximum of 4000 characters.

3. Large Objects(LOB)
    i. Character Large Objects(CLOB) : 
        -- It is used to store large amount of characters.
        -- It can store upto 4GB.
    ii. Binary Large Objects(BLOB) :
        -- It is used to store Binary objects such as Audio, Video, Images,PDFs, DOCs etc. in the form Binary data.
        -- There is no limit for the storage size.

4. Date : It is used to store the dates.
    Formate : DD-MM-YYYY or DD-MON-YYYY

5. Number :  It is used to store Number.
    Precision : Used to store whole numbers.
    Scale : Used to store decimals.


Constraints : It is a rule or condition that is given to a Column.
There are 5 types of constraints.
1. Unique Constraint : This is used to avoid entering duplicate values in the cell.

2. Not Null Constraint : It is used to avod the null values that are entered in the cells.

3. Check Constraint : It is used to provide a user defined condtion or custom condtion to the Column.

4. Primary Key Constraint : It is used to Uniquely identify the recoords from the table. 
    It is a combination of Unique and not null constraints.

5. Foreign Key Constraint : It is used to establish connectioon between multiple tables. 
